https://www.nj.com/entertainment/2025/10/popular-pop-star-leaves-live-performances-behind-for-the-foreseeable-future.html
Popular pop star leaves live performances behind for ‘the foreseeable future’

    Published: Oct. 26, 2025, 5:00 a.m.

Superbloom Festival 2025 - Day One
Nelly Furtado announced she will be stepping away from performing live for the foreseeable future to pursue other creative opportunities. (Photo by Joseph Okpako/WireImage)WireImage
By

    Murjani Rawls | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com

Nelly Furtado announced that she will be stepping away from live performances for the foreseeable future.

She made the announcement in an Instagram post reflecting the 25th anniversary of her debut album, “Whoa, Nelly!” In that reflection, the singer/songwriter noted that she will pursue other creative interests as she steps away from the stage.

“I have decided to step away from performance for the foreseeable future and pursue some other creative and personal endeavors that I feel would better suit this next phase of my life,” Furtado wrote. “I have enjoyed my career immensely, and I still love writing music as I have always seen it as a hobby I was lucky enough to make into a career. I’ll identify as a songwriter forever.”

Furtado released “7,” her first album since 2017’s “The Ride,” in 2024. The artist explains that she is immensely happy that her discography, including three Billboard top ten hits, is being rediscovered by a new generation.

“My music has reached a whole new generation of fans and I couldn’t be happier about that,” Furtado wrote. “To have so many people rediscovering my music has been surreal and joyful. It’s been so fun embracing this opportunity, getting back on stage, and seeing up close the true lasting power of good music. It’s made me really believe in magic.”

Furtado’s final concert was during the Superbloom 2025 set in Munich on August 30. The singer expressed gratitude for everyone who helped her along in her career thus far.

“I deeply thank all of those who have worked so hard to help me make my pop dreams come true on a creative and organizational level. I thank all my brilliant collaborators and loyal champions,” she wrote. 